# C4 models as code

## What is the C4 Model?

The C4 Model is a simple hierarchical way to think about the static structures of a software system in terms of containers, components, and code. It was developed by Simon Brown, and is described in detail in his book [Software Architecture for Developers](https://leanpub.com/software-architecture-for-developers).

C4 is esentially 2 things

a higherarchical system of two things

- higherarchical set of abstractions
    - a software system
    - a software system is made up of one or more "containers" (not docker containers)
    - a container is made up of one or more "components"
    - a component is made up of one or more "code elements"
    - a code element is made up of one or more "classes"
    - a class is made up of one or more "methods"
    - a method is made up of one or more "lines of code"
    - a line of code is made up of one or more "characters"
    - a character is made up of one or more "bits"


- a higherarchical set of diagrams
    - a system context diagram
    - a context diagram
    - a container diagram
    - a component diagram
    - a code diagram

The C4 model is notation independent.
There are essentially modeling tools and diagramming tools.

## System Context Diagram

A system context diagram is a diagram that shows the system in scope and the 
other systems that it interacts with. It is a high level diagram that shows 
the system as a box and the other systems as boxes with lines connecting them.

The focus should be on people 

- actors
- roles
- personas
- etc...

and software systems rather than technologies, protocols and other low-level details.

A system context diagram is the type of diagram that you could show to non-technical
people.

### Questions Answered by System Context Diagrams

In order to draw a system context diagrams these are the questions you need to ask.

- What is the scope of the software system we are building?
- Who is using it?
- What are they doing?
- What system integrations does it need to support?

## Container Diagram

In the C4 model, a container represents an application or data store.  A container
is something that needs to be running in order for the overall software system to work.
In real terms, a container is something like:

* Server-side web application
* Client-side web application
* Clinet-side desktop application
* Mobile app
* Server-side console application
* Serverless function
* Database
* Blob or content store
* File system
* Shell script
* etc...


The Container diagram shows the high-level shape of the software architecture
and how responsibilities are distributed across it.  It also shows the major
technology choices and how the containers communicate with one another.

It is a simple, high-level technology focused diagram that is useful for
software developers and support/operations staff.

## Component Diagrams

A Component diagram zooms in and decomposes each container further to identify
the major structurlal building blocks and their interactions.

The Component diagram shows how a container is made up of a number of "components",
what each of the components are, their responsibilities and the 
technology/implementation  details.

In the context of the C4 model a "component" exists within a container.  It is
a grouping of related functionality encapsulated behind a well-defined interface.

In the C4 model, components are not separately deployable units.

### Questions Answered by Container Diagrams

In order to draw a container diagram these are the questions you need to ask.

- What are the major technology building blocks?
- What are their responsibilities?
- How do they communicate?

Here we include the applications and data stores of the thing we are implementing.

## References

- [C4 Model](https://c4model.com/)
- [C4 Model Tooling](https://c4model.com/#Tooling)
- [C4-PlantUML](https://github.com/plantuml-stdlib/C4-PlantUML)